in this lesson we learned about tuples.

there is a lot to unpack so lets see how much we can remember:

Tuples:

tuples are like lists but are immutable, this means you can read from them same as lists, but you cannout change them as in:

tupl[3] = 4
tupl.append(4)
tupl.extend(5)

these will all give errors

you can however create a new tuple by concatenating 2 tuples between them or using the * syntax as in

tupl = (1,)

tupl = tupl + (2, 3) # tupl will be 1,2,3
tupl = tupl * 3 # tupl will be 1, 1, 1

You can create a tuple same as a list but using round brackets instead of square. you can also omit the brackets.

If you want to create a one element tuple use a comma after the element, otherwise you will create a non-tuple simple vareiable.

You can also create an empty tuple like so () or use the tuple funtion to create a tuple or convert a seuqence to a tuple.

The nice thing about tuples is that they can be use on the left side of an assignment as we saw previously when we were swapping values.

This can add a lot of elegancy to the code, and as you saw we can use vairables inside tuples

a, b = 1, 2

this is what i am talking about

you can del the tuple using the del

tuples also have the methid count which counts the number of occurences of an elemnt inside the tuple


Dicitionaries:

Dictionaries are cool too. They are literally like dictionaries. They are pairs of key value,

the key can be any imuutable object, while value can be anything

a value cannot exist without a key

dictionaries are mutable.

to change a dictionary value, simply assign the key to another value

to add a new dictionary key-value pair assign a non-existing key to a value. this is different than lists where trying to assign a non-existing index would cause an error

ductionaries are not sequences so they cannot be used in the for construction. however we have 3 vaery useful funtions that allow us to iterate through dictionaries:

keys - returns a sequence of keys
items - returns a sequence of key-value pairs
values - returns a sequence of values

you can get a value by holdng its key, you cannot get a key by holding its value.

keys are unique inside a dictionary while values arent.

what else should we know?

idk

there is also the dict funtion which creates a dict and can be used to chnage data from like a tuple to dictionary for example.

other methods maybe you should know are

update, which adds an element to a dictionary or popitem which deleltes the last item in a dictionary

dictionaries used to be unordered but since python 3.6 they are ordered so popitem will delete the last, before 3.6 a random item was being deleted.

cheers, try to have a go with them and you will be fine